README.rst, before:

genty
is awesome
=====

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/box/genty.png?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/box/genty

.. image:: https://pypip.in/v/genty/badge.png
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/genty

.. image:: https://pypip.in/d/genty/badge.png
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/genty

Genty, pronounced "gen-tee", stands for "generate tests". It promotes generative 
testing, where a single test can execute over a variety of input. Genty makes
this a breeze.

For example, consider a file sample.py containing both the code under test and
the tests:

.. code-block:: python

    from genty import genty, genty_repeat, genty_dataset
    from unittest import TestCase

    # Here's the class under test
    class MyClass(object):
        def add_one(self, x): 
            return x + 1

    # Here's the test code
    @genty
    class MyClassTests(TestCase):
        @genty_dataset(
            (0, 1),
            (100000, 100001),
        )
        def test_add_one(self, value, expected_result):
            actual_result = MyClass().add_one(value)
            self.assertEqual(expected_result, actual_result)


Running the MyClassTests using the default unittest runner

.. code-block:: console

    $ python -m unittest -v sample
    test_add_one(0, 1) (sample.MyClassTests) ... ok
    test_add_one(100000, 100001) (sample.MyClassTests) ... ok

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Ran 2 tests in 0.000s

    OK

Instead of having to write multiple independent tests for various test cases, 
code can be refactored and parametrized using genty!

It produces readable tests.
It produces maintainable tests.
It produces expressive tests.

Another option is running the same test multiple times. This is useful in stress
tests or when excerising code looking for race conditions. This particular test

.. code-block:: python

    @genty_repeat(3)
    def test_adding_one_to_zero(self):
        self.assertEqual(1, MyClass().add_one(0))


would be run 3 times, producing output like

.. code-block:: console

    $ python -m unittest -v sample
    test_adding_one() iteration_1 (sample.MyClassTests) ... ok
    test_adding_one() iteration_2 (sample.MyClassTests) ... ok
    test_adding_one() iteration_3 (sample.MyClassTests) ... ok

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Ran 3 tests in 0.001s

    OK

The 2 techniques can be combined:

.. code-block:: python

        @genty_repeat(2)
        @genty_dataset(
            (0, 1),
            (100000, 100001),
        )
        def test_add_one(self, value, expected_result):
            actual_result = MyClass().add_one(value)
            self.assertEqual(expected_result, actual_result)
            

There are more options to explore including naming your datasets and genty_args.

.. code-block:: python
 
        @genty_dataset(
            default_case=(0, 1),
            limit_case=(999, 1000),
            error_case=genty_args(-1, -1, is_something=False),
        )
        def test_complex(self, value1, value2, optional_value=None, is_something=True):
            ...
 

would run 3 tests, producing output like

.. code-block:: console

    $ python -m unittest -v sample
    test_complex(default_case) (sample.MyClassTests) ... ok
    test_complex(limit_case) (sample.MyClassTests) ... ok
    test_complex(error_case) (sample.MyClassTests) ... ok

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Ran 3 tests in 0.003s

    OK

genty_args allow you to define the params to the test method as if it were being called 
directly. Thus for complex tests with lots of parameters, one can take advantage of
default values and named parameters.

Enjoy!

Installation
------------

To install, simply:

.. code-block:: console

    pip install genty


Contributing
------------

See `CONTRIBUTING <https://github.com/box/genty/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.rst>`_.


Setup
~~~~~

Create a virtual environment and install packages -

.. code-block:: console

    mkvirtualenv genty
    pip install -r requirements-dev.txt


Testing
~~~~~~~

Run all tests using -

.. code-block:: console

    tox

The tox tests include code style checks via pep8 and pylint.


Copyright and License
---------------------

::

 Copyright 2014 Box, Inc. All rights reserved.

 Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
 you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
 You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 limitations under the License.

Commit message:

Bump version to 0.3.0. Prepare to deprecate namespace packaged version.

README.rst, after:

genty
is awesome
=====

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/box/genty.png?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/box/genty

.. image:: https://pypip.in/v/genty/badge.png
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/genty

.. image:: https://pypip.in/d/genty/badge.png
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/genty

Upcoming Breaking Change!
-------------------------

When Genty was released through version 0.2.0, it was released under the namespace
box.test. In version 0.3.0, importing genty became easier:
.. code-block:: python
    from genty import genty, genty_dataset
    from genty.genty_args import genty_args
vs.
.. code-block:: python
    from box.test.genty import genty, genty_dataset, genty_args

In version 0.4.0, however, you will no longer be able to import genty from box.test.

about
-----

Genty, pronounced "gen-tee", stands for "generate tests". It promotes generative 
testing, where a single test can execute over a variety of input. Genty makes
this a breeze.

For example, consider a file sample.py containing both the code under test and
the tests:

.. code-block:: python

    from genty import genty, genty_repeat, genty_dataset
    from unittest import TestCase

    # Here's the class under test
    class MyClass(object):
        def add_one(self, x): 
            return x + 1

    # Here's the test code
    @genty
    class MyClassTests(TestCase):
        @genty_dataset(
            (0, 1),
            (100000, 100001),
        )
        def test_add_one(self, value, expected_result):
            actual_result = MyClass().add_one(value)
            self.assertEqual(expected_result, actual_result)


Running the MyClassTests using the default unittest runner

.. code-block:: console

    $ python -m unittest -v sample
    test_add_one(0, 1) (sample.MyClassTests) ... ok
    test_add_one(100000, 100001) (sample.MyClassTests) ... ok

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Ran 2 tests in 0.000s

    OK

Instead of having to write multiple independent tests for various test cases, 
code can be refactored and parametrized using genty!

It produces readable tests.
It produces maintainable tests.
It produces expressive tests.

Another option is running the same test multiple times. This is useful in stress
tests or when excerising code looking for race conditions. This particular test

.. code-block:: python

    @genty_repeat(3)
    def test_adding_one_to_zero(self):
        self.assertEqual(1, MyClass().add_one(0))


would be run 3 times, producing output like

.. code-block:: console

    $ python -m unittest -v sample
    test_adding_one() iteration_1 (sample.MyClassTests) ... ok
    test_adding_one() iteration_2 (sample.MyClassTests) ... ok
    test_adding_one() iteration_3 (sample.MyClassTests) ... ok

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Ran 3 tests in 0.001s

    OK

The 2 techniques can be combined:

.. code-block:: python

        @genty_repeat(2)
        @genty_dataset(
            (0, 1),
            (100000, 100001),
        )
        def test_add_one(self, value, expected_result):
            actual_result = MyClass().add_one(value)
            self.assertEqual(expected_result, actual_result)
            

There are more options to explore including naming your datasets and genty_args.

.. code-block:: python
 
        @genty_dataset(
            default_case=(0, 1),
            limit_case=(999, 1000),
            error_case=genty_args(-1, -1, is_something=False),
        )
        def test_complex(self, value1, value2, optional_value=None, is_something=True):
            ...
 

would run 3 tests, producing output like

.. code-block:: console

    $ python -m unittest -v sample
    test_complex(default_case) (sample.MyClassTests) ... ok
    test_complex(limit_case) (sample.MyClassTests) ... ok
    test_complex(error_case) (sample.MyClassTests) ... ok

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Ran 3 tests in 0.003s

    OK

genty_args allow you to define the params to the test method as if it were being called 
directly. Thus for complex tests with lots of parameters, one can take advantage of
default values and named parameters.

Enjoy!

Installation
------------

To install, simply:

.. code-block:: console

    pip install genty


Contributing
------------

See `CONTRIBUTING <https://github.com/box/genty/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.rst>`_.


Setup
~~~~~

Create a virtual environment and install packages -

.. code-block:: console

    mkvirtualenv genty
    pip install -r requirements-dev.txt


Testing
~~~~~~~

Run all tests using -

.. code-block:: console

    tox

The tox tests include code style checks via pep8 and pylint.


Copyright and License
---------------------

::

 Copyright 2014 Box, Inc. All rights reserved.

 Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
 you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
 You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 limitations under the License.
